Titel: Analysis of antibody dynamics in Chinese children aged 1-3 years after single-dose varicella vaccination: A 42 months prospective study.
Autoren: Sun X, Zhang L, Wang Z, Wang W
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Dec 31

Abstract:
1. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2024 Dec 31;20(1):2410065. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2024.2410065. Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Analysis of antibody dynamics in Chinese children aged 1-3 years after 
single-dose varicella vaccination: A 42 months prospective study.

Sun X(1), Zhang L(1), Wang Z(1), Wang W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Expanded Program on Immunization, Jiangsu Provincial Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The Affiliated Suqian First 
People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Suqian, Jiangsu, China.

In China, children aged 12 months receive only a single dose of the varicella 
vaccine and the incidence of varicella remains high. This study aims to evaluate 
the changes in immunity among children aged 1-3 years following a single dose of 
the varicella vaccine, providing a scientific basis for determining the optimal 
age for a second vaccination. This prospective cohort study employed 
glycoprotein enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (gpELISA) for antibody detection. 
The changes in IgG antibody levels over time post-vaccination were analyzed 
using a restricted cubic spline (RCS) fitted binary logistic regression model. 
Varicella surveillance data were collected from the National Notifiable Disease 
Reporting System (NNDRS). Following a peak in varicella incidence in 2019, the 
incidence shifted toward older age groups. The cohort study results revealed a 
seropositivity rate of 100% in children during the 18 months post-vaccination, 
which subsequently declined to 71.6% by the 42 months. The geometric mean 
concentration (GMC) decreased from 307.6mIU/mL to 115.2mIU/mL. Additionally, 14 
children contracted varicella during the follow-up period, resulting in a 
breakthrough rate of 2.85%. RCS analysis indicated that antibody levels fell 
below the protective threshold 18.69 months post-vaccination, with a non-linear 
decline in the odds ratio(OR) of maintaining antibody 
concentrations ≥ 50mIU/mL(p < .001, Pnonlinear ≤ 0.001). This study demonstrates 
that the long-term protective efficacy of a single dose of the varicella vaccine 
diminishes over time in children, underscoring the necessity of implementing a 
two-dose vaccination strategy. The findings provide scientific evidence for 
determining the optimal timing for administering the second dose of the vaccine.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2024.2410065
PMID: 39411866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]