Titel: A mathematical model simulating the adaptive immune response in various vaccines and vaccination strategies.
Autoren: Xu Z, Song J, Zhang H, Wei Z, Wei D, Yang G, Demongeot J, Zeng Q
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 14

Abstract:
1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 14;14(1):23995. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-74221-x.

A mathematical model simulating the adaptive immune response in various vaccines 
and vaccination strategies.

Xu Z(1), Song J(2), Zhang H(2), Wei Z(2), Wei D(3)(4)(5), Yang G(6), Demongeot 
J(7), Zeng Q(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Dezhou University, Dezhou, 253023, China. 
xuzhaobin@dzu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Life Science, Dezhou University, Dezhou, 253023, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Shanghai-Islamabad-Belgrade 
Joint Innovation Center on Antibacterial Resistances, Joint International 
Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, School of Life 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200030, P. 
R. China.
(4)Zhongjing Research and Industrialization Institute of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhongguancun Scientific Park, Meixi, Nanyang, 473006, Henan, P. R. China.
(5)Peng Cheng National Laboratory, Vanke Cloud City Phase I Building 8, Xili 
Street, Nashan District, 518055, Shenzhen, Guangdong, P. R. China.
(6)Department of Arts, Dezhou University, 253023, Dezhou, China.
(7)Laboratory AGEIS EA 7407, Team Tools for e-Gnosis Medical, Faculty of 
Medicine, University Grenoble Alpes (UGA), 38700, La Tronche, France. 
jacques.demongeot@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr.
(8)Department of Life Science, Dezhou University, Dezhou, 253023, China. 
zengqiangcheng@126.com.

Vaccination has been widely recognized as an effective measure for preventing 
infectious diseases. To facilitate quantitative research into the activation of 
adaptive immune responses in the human body by vaccines, it is important to 
develop an appropriate mathematical model, which can provide valuable guidance 
for vaccine development. In this study, we constructed a novel mathematical 
model to simulate the dynamics of antibody levels following vaccination, based 
on principles from immunology. Our model offers a concise and accurate 
representation of the kinetics of antibody response. We conducted a comparative 
analysis of antibody dynamics within the body after administering several common 
vaccines, including traditional inactivated vaccines, mRNA vaccines, and future 
attenuated vaccines based on defective interfering viral particles (DVG). Our 
findings suggest that booster shots play a crucial role in enhancing 
Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody levels, and we provide a detailed discussion on 
the advantages and disadvantages of different vaccine types. From a mathematical 
standpoint, our model proposes four essential approaches to guide vaccine 
design: enhancing antigenic T-cell immunogenicity, directing the production of 
high-affinity antibodies, reducing the rate of IgG decay, and lowering the peak 
level of vaccine antigen-antibody complexes. Our study contributes to the 
understanding of vaccine design and its application by explaining various 
phenomena and providing guidance in comprehending the interactions between 
antibodies and antigens during the immune process.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-74221-x
PMCID: PMC11473516
PMID: 39402093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.