Titel: Maternal Bacille Calmette-Guérin Scars and Mortality Risk for Male and Female Newborns: Observational Study From Guinea-Bissau.
Autoren: Schaltz-Buchholzer F, Nielsen S, Sørensen MK, Gomes GM, Hoff S, Toft AM, Stjernholm EB, Monteiro I, Aaby P, Benn CS
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 16

Abstract:
1. J Infect Dis. 2024 Oct 16;230(4):995-1003. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiae262.

Maternal Bacille Calmette-Guérin Scars and Mortality Risk for Male and Female 
Newborns: Observational Study From Guinea-Bissau.

Schaltz-Buchholzer F(1)(2), Nielsen S(1)(2), Sørensen MK(1), Gomes GM(1), Hoff 
S(1)(3), Toft AM(1)(3), Stjernholm EB(1), Monteiro I(1), Aaby P(1), Benn 
CS(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Bandim Health Project, INDEPTH Network, Bissau, Guinea-Bissau.
(2)Bandim Health Project, OPEN, Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark and Odense University Hospital.
(3)Department of Public Health, GloHAU, Center for Global Health, Aarhus 
University.
(4)Danish Institute of Advanced Study, University of Southern Denmark, Odense.

BACKGROUND: Maternal priming with bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) has been 
associated with reduced mortality in male offspring. We investigated this 
association in a cohort of healthy BCG-vaccinated neonates.
METHODS: This observational study within a randomized controlled trial comparing 
different BCG strains was conducted in Guinea-Bissau from 2017 to 2020. As part 
of trial inclusion procedures, on the day of discharge from the maternity ward, 
maternal BCG scar status was evaluated by visual inspection, followed by 
offspring BCG and polio vaccination. Through mortality data collected at 
telephone interviews at 6 weeks and 6 months of age, we assessed all-cause 
mortality risk in Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for maternal 
schooling and BCG strain, providing adjusted mortality rate ratios (aMRRs).
RESULTS: In total, 64% (11 070/17 275) of mothers had a BCG scar, which was not 
associated with admission risk, admission severity, or all-cause mortality for 
females and the overall sample. By 6 months of age, the mortality rate (MR) was 
4.1 (200 deaths/4919 person-years) for the maternal BCG scar cohort and 5.2 
(139/2661) for no maternal scar (aMRR, 0.86; 95% Confidence Interval [CI], 
.69-1.06). In males, 6-month MRs were 4.3 (109 deaths/2531 person-years) for 
maternal BCG scar vs 6.3 (87/1376) for no scar (aMRR, 0.74; 95% CI, .56-.99). In 
females, 6-month MRs were 3.8 (91 deaths/2388 person-years) vs 4.0 (52/1286), 
respectively (aMRR, 1.04; 95% CI, .74-1.47; for interaction with sex, P = .16).
CONCLUSIONS: While we cannot rule out an association in females, being born to a 
mother with a BCG scar reduced the risk of death during early infancy for 
BCG-vaccinated males, reproducing findings from previous studies.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiae262
PMID: 38758135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest . All authors: 
No reported conflicts. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure 
of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant 
to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed.