Titel: Deciphering the neural responses to a naturalistic persuasive message.
Autoren: Ntoumanis I, Sheronova J, Davydova A, Dolgaleva M, Jääskeläinen IP, Kosonogov V, Shestakova AN, Klucharev V
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 22

Abstract:
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2024 Oct 22;121(43):e2401317121. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2401317121. Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Deciphering the neural responses to a naturalistic persuasive message.

Ntoumanis I(1)(2)(3), Sheronova J(1), Davydova A(1), Dolgaleva M(1), 
Jääskeläinen IP(1), Kosonogov V(1), Shestakova AN(1), Klucharev V(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)International Laboratory of Social Neurobiology, Institute for Cognitive 
Neuroscience, National Research University Higher School of Economics, Moscow 
101000, Russia.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center, Jane and John Justin Institute for Mind Health, 
Cook Children's Health Care System, Fort Worth, TX 76104.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX 
76010.
(4)Graduate School of Business, National Research University Higher School of 
Economics, Moscow 119049, Russia.

Effective health promotion may benefit from understanding how persuasion 
emerges. While earlier research has identified brain regions implicated in 
persuasion, these studies often relied on event-related analyses and frequently 
simplified persuasive communications. The present study investigates the neural 
basis of valuation change induced by a persuasive healthy eating call, employing 
naturalistic stimuli. Fifty healthy participants performed two blocks of a 
bidding task, in which they had to bid on sugar-containing, sugar-free, and 
nonedible products during functional MRI. In between the two blocks, they 
listened to a persuasive healthy eating call that influenced their bidding 
behavior. Intriguingly, participants who resisted persuasion exhibited increased 
synchronization of brain activity during listening in several regions, including 
default mode network structures. Additionally, intersubject functional 
connectivity among these brain regions was found to be weaker in persuaded 
individuals. These results emphasize the individualized nature of processing 
persuasive messages, challenging conventional interpretations of synchronized 
neural activity. Our findings support the emerging practice of tailoring 
persuasive messages in health promotion campaigns.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2401317121
PMID: 39413130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.