Titel: Knowledge, attitude and perception of Italian dental students toward HPV-related oropharyngeal cancer and vaccination: a cross-sectional study.
Autoren: Musella G, Liguori S, Cantile T, Adamo D, Coppola N, Canfora F, Blasi A, Mignogna M, Amato M, Caponio VCA, Mignogna MD, Leuci S
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 14

Abstract:
1. BMC Oral Health. 2024 Oct 14;24(1):1213. doi: 10.1186/s12903-024-04998-w.

Knowledge, attitude and perception of Italian dental students toward HPV-related 
oropharyngeal cancer and vaccination: a cross-sectional study.

Musella G(1)(2), Liguori S(3), Cantile T(4)(5), Adamo D(1), Coppola N(1), 
Canfora F(1), Blasi A(6), Mignogna M(1), Amato M(4), Caponio VCA(2), Mignogna 
MD(1), Leuci S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
Oral Medicine Unit, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, 
71122, Foggia, Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
Oral Medicine Unit, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
simone.liguori@unina.it.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
Pediatric Dentistry, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(5)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry Scuola Medica Salernitana, 
University of Salerno, Baronissi, Italy.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
Periodontology Unit, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a leading cause of 
oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer (OPSCC). This study aimed to carry out a 
Knowledge, Attitude and Perception survey on HPV infection, HPV+ OPSCC, and HPV 
vaccination among Italian dental students.
METHODS: Through an online self-administered questionnaire consisting of 82 
questions, data on dental students' sociodemographic characteristics, knowledge, 
attitudes and perceptions concerning HPV+ OPSCC, infection and vaccination were 
acquired. A statistical analysis, based on their year of attendance (early 
career, from 1st to 3rd year vs. late career, from 4th to 6th year) was also 
conducted.
RESULTS: A total of 412 dental students completed the questionnaire. Knowledge 
of HPV+ OPSCC was reported by 61% of early-career students and 73% of 
late-career students, with high awareness of the HPV-OPSCC correlation in both 
groups (85% vs. 89%, respectively). The percentage of correct responses 
regarding HPV infection knowledge was 61% for early-career and 73% for 
late-career students, while vaccine knowledge was 70% and 78%, respectively. 
Over 90% of students acknowledged the dentist's role in educating patients about 
HPV and OPSCC, and attitudes toward discussing HPV and vaccination were 
positive. However, only about half would recommend the vaccine to either gender. 
Statistically significant differences were found between early- and late-career 
groups across all knowledge sections (p < 0.001), while no significant 
differences emerged for perception (p = 0.076) or attitude (p = 0.147).
CONCLUSIONS: The study reveals encouraging results but highlights significant 
gaps in dental students' knowledge, perceptions, and attitudes toward 
HPV+ OPSCC, infection, and vaccination. Addressing these gaps through targeted 
education and training in dental curricula could improve HPV prevention 
awareness and patient education, ultimately enhancing public health outcomes.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-024-04998-w
PMCID: PMC11472497
PMID: 39402502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.