Titel: Safety of an inactivated enterovirus 71 vaccine administered concurrently with other vaccines among infants aged 6-11 months: An observational study using active surveillance.
Autoren: Wu L, Zhang Y, Liu J, Huang Z, Shao H, Ma X, Sun X
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Dec 31

Abstract:
1. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2024 Dec 31;20(1):2412388. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2024.2412388. Epub 2024 Oct 15.

Safety of an inactivated enterovirus 71 vaccine administered concurrently with 
other vaccines among infants aged 6-11 months: An observational study using 
active surveillance.

Wu L(1), Zhang Y(1), Liu J(1), Huang Z(1), Shao H(1), Ma X(1), Sun X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunization Program, Shanghai Municipal Centers for Disease 
Prevention and Control, Shanghai, China.

Vaccine co-administration can efficiently increase vaccination uptake and timely 
immunization. This study aimed to evaluate the safety of the enterovirus 71 
(EV71) vaccine administered alone or concurrently with other vaccines in infants 
6-11 months. A total of 3,769 EV71 vaccine doses were administered to children 
in the active surveillance area, of which 1,909 were administered concurrently 
with other vaccines and 1,860 doses were administered alone. Active surveillance 
was conducted to observe adverse events (AEs) within 0-7 and ≥8 days after 
vaccination and to determine the incidence of reported AEs. The overall AE 
incidence was 2.12% (95% CI: 1.66%-2.58%), with 1.56% (95% CI:1.00%-2.12%) for 
the EV71 vaccine alone and 2.67% (95% CI: 1.95%-3.40%) for simultaneous 
administration of the EV71 vaccine and other vaccines (x2 = 5.612, p = .018). 
The solicited local AE incidence was 1.00% (95% CI: 0.55%-1.44%) in the EV71 
vaccine co-administration group and 0.59% (95% CI: 0.24%-0.94%) in the EV71 
vaccine alone group (x2 = 1.946, p = .018). The solicited systemic AE incidence 
was 1.68% (95% CI: 1.10%-2.25%) and 0.86% (95% CI: 0.44%-1.28%) in the EV71 
vaccine co-administered and EV71 vaccine alone groups, respectively (x2 = 4.990, 
p = .025). No serious vaccine-related AEs were reported. Fever was the most 
common AE; no difference was observed in the incidence rate of fever between the 
two groups (x2 = 3.467, p = .063). Overall, AE incidence following EV71 
vaccination alone or concurrently with other vaccines was acceptable; concurrent 
vaccination did not increase AE risk or severity.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2024.2412388
PMID: 39402977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]