Titel: Modeling the population-level impact of a third dose of MMR vaccine on a mumps outbreak at the University of Iowa.
Autoren: Park SW, Lawal T, Marin M, Marlow MA, Grenfell BT, Masters NB
Ver√∂ffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 22

Abstract:
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2024 Oct 22;121(43):e2403808121. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2403808121. Epub 2024 Oct 14.

Modeling the population-level impact of a third dose of MMR vaccine on a mumps 
outbreak at the University of Iowa.

Park SW(1), Lawal T(1), Marin M(2), Marlow MA(2), Grenfell BT(1), Masters NB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, 
Princeton, NJ 08544.
(2)Division of Viral Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30329.

Mumps outbreaks among fully vaccinated young adults have raised questions about 
potential waning of immunity over time and need for a third dose of the measles, 
mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccine. However, there are currently limited data on 
real-life effectiveness of the third-dose MMR vaccine in preventing mumps. Here, 
we used a deterministic compartmental model to infer the effectiveness of the 
third-dose MMR vaccine in preventing mumps cases by analyzing the mumps outbreak 
that occurred at the University of Iowa between August 24, 2015, and May 13, 
2016. The modeling approach further allowed us to evaluate the population-level 
impact of vaccination by different timing in relation to the start of the 
outbreak and varied coverage levels, and to account for potential sources of 
bias in estimating vaccine effectiveness. We found large uncertainty in vaccine 
effectiveness estimates; however, our models showed that early introduction of a 
third dose of MMR vaccine during a mumps outbreak can be effective in preventing 
transmission. School holidays, such as the winter break, likely played important 
roles in preventing mumps transmission.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2403808121
PMID: 39401354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.